---
layout: single
title: Manifesto
type: page
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
sidebar:
  nav: "menu"
---

There are various principles that the Ximera Project follows in the
technology it creates and promotes.  Above these principles is the
tagline of the Project: "only work to create the future you want to
inhabit."  Edtech offers many bad paths, such as when adaptive
platforms are repurposed not as pumps to promote learning but as
filters, when data is used unethically for "predictive analytics" that
may be simply reinforce existing sexism and racism in mathematics
education.

Cognizant of such dangers, the Project is committed to working
towards a future that we actually want to inhabit, meaning a future
where a high-quality mathematics education is broadly available.

# Assessment belongs inside the academy

This is really the "theory of the firm" meaning one must decide what
belongs inside a University and what belongs outside, and the
knowledge of how to scale online assessment to reach large numbers of
learners belongs inside the University, because assessment is a key
component of academia.  Academia's core saleable product isn't really
content or curriculum (which should be made publicly available as
befits a land-grant mission), but rather student data, which gets
packaged in the form of transcripts verifiable by employers.

An industry which outsources its core product is a doomed industry, so
one should be especially skeptical of those times when universities
ask students to pay a third-party to grade student work.

# Rely on open standards

Rather than reinventing technology, the Project connects existing
open standards.

One example of this is a disdain for walled gardens.  Content belongs
not on any particularwebsite but on the open web.

# Content separated from its deployment

The most expensive part of developing content is the author's time,
and the author does not want to re-write the book for the
platform-of-the-year.  Consequently, the author should author in plain
text (because what other format will survive?) marked up semantically.
The precise markup is not so important (considering that both XML and
LaTeX amount to labeled parentheses), but it is important that the
markup emphasize the author's meaning as opposed to how it may or may
not be rendered at present.

# Data-driven

There's huge asset specificity in math education.  Large
institutions already have the content experts, so the Project
leverages the human resources already present in higher education
institutions (which would be costly to replicate in industry, given
industry rates for mathematicians) to assist with one thing that
higher education institutions can't build and can't maintain: a
collaborative platform for distributing interactive content and
aggregate grade data to feed an adaptive model.
